Power Up With 5 Energy-Saving Tips
Featured Stories  14 May 2024
Simple steps to conserve energy can work wonders for both your electricity bill and the environment. 

With higher-than-usual temperatures expected in the months ahead due to the effects of El Nino, it is no surprise if you see higher electricity consumption in your utilities bill.

By taking simple yet effective measures, you can cut down on your household’s energy consumption. These actions will not only go some way towards saving the Earth but may also lower your electricity bills.

Here are 5 ways to do your part for sustainability and lower your electricity bill.

1. Opt for Energy-Saving Appliances
Appliances such as refrigerators, air-conditioners and water heaters can consume significant amounts of energy. When replacing electrical appliances, you can look out for those with more ticks on the energy label. A simple rule of thumb: the more ticks there are, the more energy efficient the appliance is. While they may cost slightly more upfront, you are more likely to save more over the lifespan of the appliance.

Tip: Claim your $300 worth of Climate Vouchers under the Climate Friendly Households Programme (CFHP) where you can use to purchase 10 types of energy- and water-efficient household products.

2. Make the Most Out of Your Appliances
Besides choosing more energy-efficient appliances, the type of appliances we buy and how we use them matters too.

For example, an instantaneous water heater that instantly heats water as it flows through the appliance is more energy efficient than a storage water heater.

With air-conditioners among one of the energy-intensive appliances, it also pays to use them more optimally.

Choose the right cooling capacity for your air-conditioner. An oversized air-conditioner is not only more costly, but also operates less efficiently whereas an undersized air-conditioner may not provide adequate cooling.
Consider using the air-conditioner for a short while to cool the room and switching to a fan thereafter.
Set your air-conditioner at 25 degree Celsius or higher.
Service your air-conditioning units regularly so they function more efficiently.
3. Stay Cool with Smart Interior Design
With sweltering temperatures, simply staying indoors to stay cool is not sufficient without taking the right measures to cool our homes effectively. These measures include using blinds or curtains over windows or solar window films to block heat from the sun. Using partitions can also help minimise the space that needs to be air-conditioned.

Additionally, consider using task lighting, which is directed at a designated area for reading or working, to reduce overall lighting usage.

Using light-coloured curtains can help to reduce the use of lighting as they allow more daylight into the room.

Stock image of a room with light-coloured curtains
4. Adopt Greener Habits
Sometimes, the small actions we take can make a big difference. Consider incorporating these power-saving practices into your daily routine:

Turn off appliances and electronic devices at the power socket when not in use. Leaving them on standby mode allows them to continue drawing power.
Take shorter showers or skip the use of the electric water heater on hot days.
Store hot water in a thermos flask instead of an electric air-pot.
Drying your clothes naturally instead of using a clothes dryer on a hot day is one of the small yet effective ways of minimising electricity usage.

Stock image of drying clothes naturally
5. Make Informed Choices
While every household varies in its electricity usage, they generally follow similar consumption patterns. You can refer to the consumption pattern of a typical household in Singapore, also known as a load profile. This information can help you identify periods of high electricity usage and vice versa.

Image of a household's typical electricity consumption pattern in a day
A typical electricity consumption pattern for a household

For more timely data at your finger-tips, those with advanced electricity meters can view their half-hourly electricity consumption via the SP app. By leveraging this information, you can take informed steps to conserve or reduce electricity usage effectively. By 2026, all households will be installed with such advanced electricity meters.

For households with advanced electricity meters, you can consider registering your interest for an upcoming Residential Demand Response pilot by EMA and SP Group if eligible. As a participating household, SP Group will send out notifications to you via the SP app to temporarily reduce your electricity consumption during peak demand periods. Participating households can then decide whether they would like to take steps such as turning off their air-conditioners or defer using their washing machines to be eligible for rewards.